So my name is Sandra Savard.
I'm the principal at Birchmount School
in Moncton in Anglophone East.
I'm here to talk to you
about our behavior matrix,
which we call our bare necessities,
because we are the birch mount bears.
Our process to get there was one
that was slow.
It did involve a lot of conversations
and a lot of debates among teachers.
We took some dedicated professional
learning time to really dig down into what
our expectations common expectations
are for us, for our students.
We identified major areas
within the school,
such as the classroom,
the playground, the washrooms, and to talk
about what we wanted our students
to demonstrate in those areas.
Then we did also identified
our expectations among and we
we identified themes
that aligned
with how we wanted our students to behave.
And those were to be safe.
We wanted our birch
mount bears to be respectful,
and we wanted our bears to be responsible.
So we took each one of those themes,
aligned it with an area, and came up
with 3 or 4 positive statements
on what we wanted our students to be in.
Those areas.
Things like, bears are responsible
by taking care of their materials
in the classroom.
Bears are safe
by following the playground rules.
So each one of those areas has somewhere
between 9 to 12 statements
that align with being safe, respectful,
and responsible in those specific areas.
One of the biggest piece
that the benefits of the matrix has given
us is a common language, a common language
for us to use with students,
a common language for us to use
with our colleagues, and a common language
to help us with communication home.
That consistent language helped us
to anchor conversations
both with students, staff and home,
and also help to show
that we are reunited at Birch Mount
and that we're all on the same team
in regards to our expectations
in the classroom, on the playground,
or in the washroom, etc..
My advice for schools
who are looking at embarking
on this journey and PBIs
and creating their own behavior
matrix is to go slow.
Be ready for conflict
and for people to disagree.
We recognize that teachers
can be very passionate about what
they want to see in their classroom,
what they want to see on the playground.
But once you agree and you come up
with that consistent language,
you are committed as a team to make sure
that that's what we're following
through on.
Also, consistent communication about your
your behavior matrix
and your expectations.
So make sure that you continue
to have regular conversations,
including it in your newsletters,
including and in your staff communication,
and also included it in on
morning announcements with our students.